Now with this action being dispatched we can go to the reducer and write some code here in input change
and that's very simple code.
We return a new state where I copy my old state and I want to update the value with action dot value
because value is one property I have on is action the other is is valid and that's the other thing which
I also want to update on every keystroke is valid for dis input not for the entire forum but for dis
input managed internally I'll not update touched here instead touch should be updated when we actually
lose focus because that means the user is done entering content for the moment.
So now I want to mark this as touched and possibly show validation errors so here lost focus Handler
is a function which I add and there I will dispatch
an action now for that.
I'll create a action identifier up here.
Input blur like this input blur like this and now we can dispatch input blur here don't need to attach
any data and now in our reducer we can use that with a number of case input blur and if that is the
case I return unused state where I copy old state because I want to keep value and is valid and not
change that but I want to set touched to true so as soon as we blur input it is treated as touched.
Now we just need to hook up this function so we'll set the on blur listener here and point at lost focus
handler so that this triggers when this input blurs
not that is all nice and this will manage the state inside of this input of course I still need to forward
the value and information whether that input is valid or not to my parent though so to the added product
screen hence what we can do is we can add use a fact here as a input in the input component and maybe
add it here
and in the use affect function I want to call a function which I expect to get via props maybe on input
change name is up to you and it will just execute this and for word my input state value and my input
state is valid information so that in the parent component we can add a function here that listens to
that and that is triggered which receives these two arguments and then in the parent so in the screen
component we can update our state dear now the important thing is when should this use affect run and
it shouldn't run after every keystroke instead this should run whenever our input state value or is
valid changes of course because that's what we depend on or to be precise we might even only sent this
information if input state touched is true because otherwise the parent component might not care.
So now our dependency here is the entire input state because we use all values but we still will only
fire dysfunction on the parent component if touched is true so it does effect will run more often but
most of the time it won't do anything as long as touched is not true and props of course also our dependency
now to a wide and infinite rendering loop here we can use the object D structuring syntax and pull out
on input change so that if our props change we don't refire does effect because on input changes what
we need down there and now we can add this is a dependency and the other things other changes in the
props will not trigger does.
So now or we call this on the parent component whenever does is touched and then we forward the value
and the validity of this input to the parent component
so let's now make use of that in the edit product screen there on our inputs like on the tightly input
we can add the on input change prop and that's the prop which I target here right so you need to get
that naming right and this expects to get a function as a value which then in turn will receive two
arguments when called the value and the validity of that input.
So here I want to point at a function and that can be our let's say input change handler we can recycle
this I just rename it to be more fitting.
So the input change handler can be triggered here like this there I want to still pass in my identifier
because I want to reuse that for all my inputs and now as in some indie screen component we will have
multiple inputs and there we don't forget our identifier and then we get the value and the is valid
information right.
So input value and input validity that's what we get.
Right.
Because that's what we forward from inside the input component here.
That's what we pass to this on input change.
Function so therefore here we don't need to do validation we just need to forward that information we
forward the input value we forward the input validity and this will only happen when the input is touched
by the way.
So when it loses focus
and of course that's just a restriction I added here that you need to have lost focus you could have
for of course all to go to the input component and removed as if check to update developed to add value
in the parent component for every input for every keystroke now one additional thing which I want to
do I want to wrap this in a used callback call here so that this function isn't rebuilt unnecessarily
because keep in mind that we passed this function to on input change in the input component and data
on the other hand.
This is a dependency of this effect.
So this in fact will rerun whatever just changes.
So it shouldn't change too often to a wide unnecessary effect runs.
And here we definitely to state our dependencies and the only dependency we have is dispatch from state
form state which will actually never change.
So we're good.
This should never rebuild because the logic in there doesn't change.
We get all values that we need as arguments with that in my edit product screen.
I still have my forms that of course with all the forum values and the form validity is but I only managed
this here because I need to submit it later and because I need to derive the overall form validity I
don't do it because I need to manage every input here.
We do that from inside the input component instead for submissions on we still need the information
about every store value.
However now if I go back to the input don't forget that you also need to set the initial value prop
and whether this should be initially valid.
So if I go back to the edit product screen now we should set initial value here to what.
Well we can check if we have added that product and if we do it and the initial value here should be
added the product title.
Otherwise it's an empty string and it should be initially valid.
So use this prop here.
If we have added that product.
So if this is with the double bang your if this is true if we have no additive product then this can't
be initially valid.
So then that pass falls which is good.
Which is just what should be the case.
Now we can copy these two lines although to the image you are l there of course we forward the image
you are l value as a default value Albert and that can stay light like it is for the price will never
have an initial value and it will never be initially valid for description on the other hand we can
again at this end here point at the script.
Now with that there is one thing I need to fix any input component which I also just thought about of
course here the form estate is not a way to live anymore.
Instead we have our internal state here and I named this input state.
That's what my reducer returns.
So we should use that here of course.
So here we have input state DOT value as a value it's as simple as that.
And here we have input state DOT is valid as a check and that should be all.
Now if he's safe doesn't have a look at this let's see whether that works we go here we have all the
error messages initially which makes sense because they're all invalid initially.
If I start typing here I get an error can find variable is valid in my input component that has to be
in that handler that fires for every keystroke probably here.
Yeah introducer of course I should check.
Action.
Dot is valid not just as valid.
I have to get this from the action so is that fixed here.
Let's go back and let's try this again start typing does this cleared fire.
Reverse this my error doesn't come back.
Those that that's a little error we'll have to fix for the price.
0 is not treated as valid one.
All these and so validation has some issues.
But entering and on works but let's see what's wrong with validation now.
Well of course the way validation works here we're not using it.
Please keep in mind that I always check whether this type of validation is enabled for this input or
disk type or this type and we do this with the help of these special props which we need to set right
now no validation is enabled so only the default invalid values are taken into account.
So if I go to the edit product screen we now enabled this special validation by setting the right props
for example here on the title input required on the image your all the required on the price here required
and also maybe men equal to zero so that zero is the minimum number we have to enter or a number greater
than it actually.
So maybe 0 1 is our minimum number for the description should also be required and maybe also Min length
equal to 5 to have at least 5 characters there also is one additional thing we need to do here in the
edit product screen does on input change handler here also needs to be added to every input of course
not just to the title input so we need to add this for the image you are L otherwise we'll get an error
or later we'll need to add this here to the price input will also need to add this here obviously to
the description input and replace the identifier in the right way.
Let's test this and you'll notice something strange.
If you type here that works.
Type in the image your l doesn't work right.
Do you validation doesn't update and you can't go back either at least as might be stuck.
So if you reload this with command error or double pressing R on Android we give this another try here.
Let's say on the price you'll notice how this works but why doesn't it work and the same would be the
case by the way if you tried to on D on the image URL here.
This works why doesn't work if a previously edited no input because now for example it doesn't work
on a title anymore and the problem is related to this being stuck here.
We're re rendering this component way too often and the reason for that is really hard to trace down
in the end we have kind of an infinite loop here.
The problem is our input change handler.
We're using callback here to a white unnecessary recreation but by then binding it like this we kind
of rendered is obsolete it's making no difference now because this will create a new function binding
for every render cycle.
So in the end what we have to do is we have to remove bind here remove it here in all these places because
this will break our capital costs.
Too many re render cycles because of use callback not having an effect.
And instead we might want to forward an idea.
Prop of title ends on cue our input component.
So let's add does on all these inputs this I.D. prop is basically what I added in the bind call before.
So we just forward this to the input component so that we can use it in there.
Let's do this for all these inputs here and now how can we use that.
Well instead of the input we now have this idea prop a weight label right.
So there we can simply attached this.
So here we can forward prop start I.D. or simply ideas so that we don't have to project props here and
instead pull out ideas out of props here just as we did it with on input change and add ideas.
As a dependency of this effect or after and now with that we still forward that identifier of this input
but in a more elegant way that avoids using bind which in the end recreates does function for every
render cycle and hence leads to an infinite loop.
Different now if we reload this and we go to the admin section here
now I can enter something here and older here and now it is works because now we are white as infinite
render cycle and we get the validation as we wanted.
So now this is my approach or this is the approach I wanted to show you here would you can use to have
a reusable input component which does its own validation which you can configure from outside and where
you can still manage the overall form.
With that let's dive into some fine tuning.
Like for example styling this error message we're displaying this validation error message and all the
controlling when we displayed because it don't want to show it all the time.